---
categories: Shows
author: Mike Pirnat
date: 2011/03/17 00:00:00
title: Episode 008 - PyCon/CodeMash Double Feature (Doctor X will Code a Feature)
---
What do you mean it’s not February any more? **Seriously?!** Sigh.  We know, we
know, we broke our promise again. Life happened–to all of us. We’ll do better
next time (Chris has a plan, you see.)

Luckily, the wait is over–we’re back, and with a whopper!  Clocking in at a
mighty **106 minutes**, this **jumbo deluxe ultra fun-size epic** includes our
reflections on recent conferences we’ve attended–January’s now-distant
`CodeMash <http://codemash.org/>`_ and March’s just-complete `PyCon
<http://us.pycon.org/2011>`_.  Your hosts for this excursion down conference
memory lane, in counterclockwise order, are Chris Miller, Mike Pirnat, Ben
Smith, and Mike Crute.

But first–**NEWS!** We get up to speed on the current haps in `Blogofile
<http://www.blogofile.com/>`_, the upcoming `PyWeek <http://www.pyweek.org/>`_,
PEP land, and the Python `version control migration
<http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0385/>`_ (from Subversion to Mercurial).

Our CodeMash recap describes the conference, highlights memorable
presentations, and gives a little flavor of the night life (jam sessions and
pool parties and craziness, oh my!).  The short version is that CodeMash is
awesome, and you should go. Seriously–it’s a polyglot conference! At an indoor
water park! In January!  It is made of win.

But **HOLY COW OMG PYCON!!** Having just returned from our glorious adventures,
we are positively effervescent about what was probably the best PyCon ever.
Mike Pirnat is goaded gently into discussing his speaking experiences–giving
his official talk, Exhibition of Atrocity, mortally offending
`Titus Brown <http://ivory.idyll.org/blog/>`_ at the `Testing in Python Birds
of a Feather <http://us.pycon.org/2011/openspaces/TestingBOF/>`_ (aka the TiP
BoF), and announcing his side project, `How Old Is My Kid?
<http://howoldismykid.com/>`_, at the `lightning talks
<http://pycon.blip.tv/file/4885747/>`_.

While at PyCon, we joined up with `Rick Harding <http://blog.mitechie.com/>`_
of `Lococast <http://lococast.net/>`_, `Anthony Scopatz
<http://www.scopatz.com/>`_ of scientific computing podcast `inSCIght
<http://inscight.org/>`_, testing goatherder and PyCon programming committee
guru `Terry Peppers <http://www.swordstyle.com/blog2/>`_, and an atypically
quiet David Stanek to form a veritable Voltron of voices, recording a live
round table during the Sunday morning open spaces.  We rofl our way through the
previous night’s TiP BoF exploits, and Terry gets Mike Pirnat to talk about
talking.  Apologies for any duplication of content in here–it’s all due to
accidents with the time machine we’re working on to try to absorb all of the
excellent PyCon talks.  (Please also forgive Mike Pirnat for hammering on his
laptop while recording–he’s very sorry and promises not to do it again.) We
rave about how well the Convore-driven backchannel worked out, get some
insights into the “Extreme” track and programming PyCon talks, and recall our
favorites presentations.  We send mad, mad shout-outs of joy to the A/V team,
who had much of the conference video online before the conference even ended;
their work is a fabulous benefit to the Python community. `Matt Gibberman
<http://twitter.com/praxis1138>`_ and `Eric Floehr
<http://us.pycon.org/2011/speaker/profile/30/>`_ join us for a few minutes to
discuss Eric’s talk on `genetic programming
<http://us.pycon.org/2011/schedule/presentations/12/>`_.

In a **special bonus segment**, Rick and Mike Pirnat sit down with the intrepid
`John DeRosa <http://seeknuance.com/>`_, whose epic **cross-country bus ride**
from Seattle to Atlanta with `play-by-play Twitter commentary
<http://twitter.com/johnderosa/>`_ so captivated us.  We talk about the why and
how of his journey and chat about memorable moments and human drama he
encountered along the way.  Then we bring things into a full-circle, swirling
time loop vortex of doom and throw some love to CodeMash and encourage all
willing Pythonistas to help represent by submitting talks for next January’s
CodeMash.

We then pop back up the stack to wrap up the episode and bring it on home with
Chris Miller’s promises of a new episode in early April, by hook or by crook
(or perhaps by five-point plan).

----

We want to add that it was **thoroughly awesome** to meet up with fans and
listeners while we were at PyCon.  Your passion and excitement for this podcast
really inspired us to hurry up and get this thing out there so that we can get
back on track. **THANK YOU. YOU ROCK.**

----

But wait–there’s more!  Behold the miscellaneous links of wonderment and joy:

 * Awesome PyWeek game: `A Murder of Crows <http://www.pyweek.org/e/MurderCrow/>`_
 * The home of CodeMash:  `Kalahari Resort <http://www.kalahariresorts.com/oh/>`_
 * `Git Immersion <http://gitimmersion.com/>`_ (which Mike maybe remembered to mention and maybe didn’t)
 * Python for microcontrollers: `PyMite <http://code.google.com/p/python-on-a-chip/>`_
 * `The MoSync SDK <http://www.mosync.com/>`_
 * Thoroughly awesome band at CodeMash:  `The Womack Family Band <http://www.womackband.com/>`_
 * Matt “Snowdog” Gibberman `rocks the hell out of “Back in the USSR” <http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h_rus39TLew>`_ at the CodeMash jam session
 * The `PyCon videos <http://pycon.blip.tv/>`_ are giant piles of gold-plated win
 * Video of Mike Pirnat’s PyCon talk: `Exhibition of Atrocity <http://blip.tv/file/4881168>`_
 * Video of `David Beazley <http://www.dabeaz.com/>`_’s talk:  `Using Python 3 to Build a Cloud Computing Service for my Superboard II <http://pycon.blip.tv/file/4878868/>`_
 * Video of `“Dude, Where’s My RAM?” <http://pycon.blip.tv/file/4878749/>`_
 * Video of `Hilary Mason <http://www.hilarymason.com/>`_’s `inspirational keynote <http://pycon.blip.tv/file/4878710/>`_
 * Video of `Running Ultra-Large Telescopes in Python <http://pycon.blip.tv/file/4881233/>`_
 * Video of Chris McAvoy’s `Threadless keynote <http://pycon.blip.tv/file/4882852/>`_
 * Courtesy of `Alfredo Deza <http://www.alfredodeza.com/>`_, a lovely reminder to press on in spite of the `haters, who are, in fact, gonna hate <http://yfrog.com/hsrovp>`_

----

Thanks for listening, and thanks so much for being patient with our
intermittent release schedule.  Once Chris shows us his elaborate Powerpoint,
we’ll get it figured out.

Podcast: `MP3 </shows/FPIP008.mp3>`_ or `OGG </shows/FPIP008.ogg>`_
